AWS - provide secure cloud services, database storage, networking,

different types of EC2 instances?
t2, m2,m4

EC2 :- which provides resizable computing capacity in the cloud

Amazon EBS:- is short for Elastic Block Store. It is a hard-drive like storage solution.

Elastic Beanstalk :- AWS Elastic Beanstalk can be used to quickly deploy
 and manage applications in the AWS Cloud

Elastic Kubernetes Service :- is a managed service that allows you to run Kubernetes.
                              without needing to install and operate your own Kubernetes control plane.
							  
without keypair how to access ec2 instance?	
we can create a new keypair and we can update the user data and run some of the
 ssh commands then
once we update the public IP of the keypair login into the system.

How you create AMI?
we need base instance to create image, then based on image we can create AMI.

NAT Gateway and NACL difference?
NAT gateway provides network to private subnets, its created in a public subnet
will get internet.
NACL is the second level of security , subnet level

Internet gateway :- can transfer communications between an vpc and the Internet.

Elastic Container Service(ECS)?
ECS makes it easy to deploy, manage, and scale Docker containers running applications,
services, and batch processes
* all things will be taken care by AWS.
* No need to run docker commands
* Using cloud formation stack it is going to deploy all the resouces.

FARGATE :- it is a server less application, (server will be created by AWS they will manage)

Cloud formation :- is an infrastrucsture service
 Cloud formation Steps
 1st we will take some sample template and we will put into the yml,jason formation
 and edit the parameter if it required and any mapping we will modify 
 modify the description and we will execute with respective service.

Stacks:- is a collection aws resouces

security group:- virtual firewall for EC2 instances to control incoming and outgoing traffic.

subnets - Subnet is “part of the network”,Creating subnets means dividing a large network into smaller ones,

S3 - simple storage we can store text word pdf files, and aws code we can store.
The maximum number of S3 buckets that can be created is 100.

standarduj

Amazon S3 Glacier (S3 Glacier) is a secure and durable service for low-cost data archiving and long-term backup.
 With S3 Glacier,


CloudWatch:- monitor AWS environments like EC2, RDS Instances,
             and CPU utilization. It also triggers alarms depending on various metrics.

VPC -stands for Virtual Private Cloud. It allows you to customize your networking configuration.

18)How do you monitor Amazon VPC?
CloudWatch
VPC Flow Logs
Geo-Targeting in CloudFront

DNS and Load Balancer are a part of IaaS-Storage Cloud Service.

load balancer :- Load balancing is a core networking solution used to distribute,
                 traffic across multiple servers in a server farm.
Load balancer types
Application Load Balancers - provide advanced routing and visibility features targeted at application
Network Load Balancer when you need ultra-high performance

21)where you kepping code in AWS?
S3(simple storage)

22) how you copy ec2 to s3?
Copying files from EC2 to S3 is called Uploading the file.
Copying files from S3 to EC2 is called Downloading the files.
*Create an IAM role with S3 write access or admin access
*Map the IAM role to an EC2 instance
*Install AWS CLI in EC2 instance
*Run the AWS s3 cp command to copy the files to the S3 bucket

IAM user :- is an IAM identity that we can create in our AWS account and assign specific permissions.

IAM Roles :- manage who has access to our AWS resources,whereas IAM policies control their permissions.

Groups: An IAM group consists of IAM users and permissions assigned to those users.

Aws region :- is a separate geographic area eg us-east-1

availability zone :- each aws region has multiple isolated locations known as availability zones.
                     all availability zones inside one region.

auto scaling :- is an amazon service, configure automatic scaling of aws resources.
                autoscale helps to automatically adjust the capacity as per you need.

geo targetting :- is a concept where you can show personalized content to your audience
                  based on their geographic location without changing the URL
 
volumes:- physical hard drive

An Amazon EBS volume is a durable, block-level storage device that
 you can attach to your instances. After you attach a volume to an instance,
 you can use it as you would use a physical hard drive.
 
snapshot :- Snapshot is backup of AMI
               is nothing but its a copy of particular gb

sudo xfs_growfs -d /data
 ebs volume mounting
 
EFS :- we have one volume we have to attach multiple instance then we will go for efs

s3 bucket :- bucket its not region specific
             its global
			 but when we r creating bucket we can select region
			 
object is stored in the form of key and value
every object have a url

SRR => SAME REGION REPLICATION
CRR => CROSS REGION REPLICATION

object store
we will store logs on the particular application

Blackhole :- NAT Gateway is associated with the routtable if we delete the NAT gateway then the status of the 
             Routtable will become Blackhole
			 


Metrics:- In metrics select ec2 and serach for cpu utiliszation and select

EBS Volume in Same Region : 
"To create the volume in the same region different availability zone
Select the snapshot go to action and create volume from snapshot
Select the required availability zone and create the volume"

Cloud Map:- "This is intigrates with ECS 
            Cloud discovery service"

Below are the 10 steps to Create your VPC             (vpc,subnets,internetgateway,routetable, natgateway pub)
Step 01. Create a VPC 

Step 02. Create 2 Public Subnet & Create 2 Private Subnet         

Step 03. Create IGW (Internet Gateway) & Attach to the VPC

Step 04. Create Public and Private Route Table

Step 05. Add IGW in Public Route table (0.0.0.0/0)

Step 06. Add Public Subnet (1a & 1b) in Route table

Step 07. Create a NAT Gateway in Public Subnet

Step 08. Add NAT GW into the Private Route Table

Step 09. Add Private Subnet in Private Route Table

Step 10. Launch EC2 in this VPC & Validate your Connection